Adding application development get started section to build app doc (#4536)
microsoft/CCF: doc/build_apps/get_started.rst

-  :doc:`Open the CCF network for users </governance/open_network>`
-  Start testing of your application endpoints

Build Application
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The application building prerequisites [:doc:`CCF </build_apps/install_bin>`, `NodeJS <https://nodejs.org>`__ and `NPM <https://www.npmjs.com>`__] must be installed, all will be preinstalled if you are using the devcontainer environment, otherwise you need to install them manually.

Please follow `ccf-app-template build process <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-template#run-js-app>`__

Testing your Application
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are several approaches to run and test your application

Run app: Using Sandbox.sh
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

-  Running the `sandbox.sh` script automatically starts a CCF network and deploys your application on it. The app is up and ready to receive calls and the initial governance steps are done for you
-  Support both ccf network types [virtual - enclave (TEE hardware)]
-  No initial governance steps required

> -  How is it working?

Reviewer: Could you delete instances of "How is it working?" here and also further down the page? Thank you.

Author: Done

   -  :doc:`/build_apps/run_app`
   -  `CCF Application template repository <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-template#run-js-app>`__

Run app: Using Docker
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

-  A CCF network can be started using Docker containers; please check the `docker file samples <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-template/tree/main/docker>`__
-  Support both ccf network types [virtual - enclave (TEE hardware)]
-  Initial governance steps are required to initialize, deploy your app, and start the network. `check Network governance section <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-template#network-governance>`__
-  How is it working?

   -  Start a CCF network using docker files. please follow `ccf-app-template <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-template#docker>`__
   -  The network is started with one node and one member, you need to
      execute the initial governance steps to initialize the network, `check Network governance section <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-template#network-governance>`__

> Run app: Using CChost on a VM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run app: Using ``cchost`` on a VM
```

Author: Done

Quick Start
===========

Application Development using CCF Overview
-------------------------------------------

-  :ref:`What is Confidential Consortium Framework (CCF) <overview/what_is_ccf:What is CCF?>`
-  Read the :doc:`CCF overview </overview/index>` and get familiar with :ref:`overview/what_is_ccf:Core Concepts` and `Azure confidential computing <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/confidential-computing/>`__
-  :doc:`Build new CCF applications </build_apps/index>` in TypeScript/JavaScript or C++

> -  CCF `Modules API reference <https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/js/ccf-app/modules.html>`__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  CCF `JavaScript module API reference <https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/js/ccf-app/modules.html>`__
```

-  CCF application get started repos `CCF application template <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-template>`__ and  `CCF application samples <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-samples>`__

Development environment
-----------------------

-  VS Code Dev Container |Open in VSCode|
-  Github codespace: |Github codespace|
-  Virtual Machine (`Creating a Virtual Machine in Azure to run CCF <https://github.com/microsoft/CCF/blob/main/getting_started/azure_vm/README.md>`__)

(JavaScript/Typescript) Applications
------------------------------------

> CCF apps can be written in JavaScript or Typescript, To test a JS/TS CCF application you need go through the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CCF apps can be written in JavaScript/Typescript. To test a JS/TS CCF application you need go through the following steps:
```

-  :doc:`Start a CCF Network with at least one node </operations/start_network>`

> -  Initialize the CCF network with at least one (active member - user) :ref:`governance/open_network:Opening a Network`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Initialise the CCF network with at least one (active member - user) :ref:`governance/open_network:Opening a Network`,
```

We prefer British English.

   this can be done through :ref:`Proposals <governance/proposals:Summary>`.
-  Create an application :ref:`deployment proposal <build_apps/js_app_bundle:Deployment>`
-  Submit the app deployment proposal to the network and all members accept it through voting. This is a part of :ref:`Network Governance <governance/proposals:Submitting a New Proposal>`.
-  :doc:`Open the CCF network for users </governance/open_network>`
-  Start testing of your application endpoints

Build Application
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The application building prerequisites [:doc:`CCF </build_apps/install_bin>`, `NodeJS <https://nodejs.org>`__ and `NPM <https://www.npmjs.com>`__] must be installed,all will be preinstalled if you are using devcontainer environment, otherwise you need to install them manually.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The application building prerequisites [:doc:`CCF </build_apps/install_bin>`, `NodeJS <https://nodejs.org>`__ and `NPM <https://www.npmjs.com>`__] must be installed, all will be preinstalled if you are using devcontainer environment, otherwise you need to install them manually.
```

> The application building prerequisites [:doc:`CCF </build_apps/install_bin>`, `NodeJS <https://nodejs.org>`__ and `NPM <https://www.npmjs.com>`__] must be installed, all will be preinstalled if you are using devcontainer environment, otherwise you need to install them manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application building prerequisites [:doc:`CCF </build_apps/install_bin>`, `NodeJS <https://nodejs.org>`__ and `NPM <https://www.npmjs.com>`__] must be installed, all will be preinstalled if you are using the devcontainer environment, otherwise you need to install them manually.
```

Please follow `ccf-app-template build process <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-template#run-js-app>`__

Testing your Application
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are several approaches to run and test your application

Run app: Using Sandbox.sh
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> -  Running the sandbox.sh script automatically starts a CCF network and deploys your application on it. The app is up and ready to receive calls and the initial governance steps are done for you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Running the `sandbox.sh` script automatically starts a CCF network and deploys your application on it. The app is up and ready to receive calls and the initial governance steps are done for you
```

Add a link to https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/build_apps/run_app.html too?

-  Support both ccf network types [virtual - enclave (TEE hardware)]
-  No initial governance steps required
-  How is it working?

   -  :doc:`/build_apps/run_app`
   -  `CCF Application template repository <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-template#run-js-app>`__

Run app: Using Docker
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

-  Build and run one of these docker files [“ccf_app_js.virtual” or “ccf_app_js.enclave”] to start a CCF network with one node and one member.

> -  Support both ccf network types [virtual - enclave (TEE hardware)]

Reviewer: Because these docker images are only available on the `ccf-app-template` repository, I think it's preferable not to include them there.

Author: Rephrased: "A CCF network can be started using Docker containers; please check the docker file samples"

-  Initial governance steps are required to initialize, deploy your app, and start the network. `check Network governance section <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-template#network-governance>`__
-  How is it working?

   -  Start a CCF network using docker files. please follow `ccf-app-template <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-template#docker>`__
   -  The network is started with one node and one member, you need to
      execute the initial governance steps to initialize the network, `check Network governance section <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-template#network-governance>`__

> Run app: Using CChost

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run app: Virtual Machine
```

Author: Rephrased: "Using CChost on a VM"

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> -  The application can be tested using CChost and :doc:`CCF config file </operations/configuration>`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  The application can be tested using `cchost` and :doc:`CCF config file </operations/configuration>`,
```

   To Start a test CCF network on a Linux environment, it requires :doc:`CCF to be intalled </build_apps/install_bin>`
   or you can create a ready CCF VM using `Creating a Virtual Machine in Azure to run CCF <https://github.com/microsoft/CCF/blob/main/getting_started/azure_vm/README.md>`__
-  Support both ccf network types [virtual - enclave (TEE hardware)]
-  Initial governance steps are required to initialize, deploy your app, and start the network. `check Network governance section <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-template#network-governance>`__

> -  How is it working?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

   -  Start a CCF network using cchost and :doc:`CCF node config file </operations/configuration>`. please follow `ccf-app-template <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-template#bare-vm>`__
   -  The network is started with one node and one member, you need to execute the initial governance steps to initialize the network, `check Network governance section <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-template#network-governance>`__

Run app: Using Managed CCF
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> -  To test you application using Managed CCF, you can create `Azure Managed CCF <https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-confidential-computing/microsoft-introduces-preview-of-azure-managed-confidential/ba-p/3648986>`__ serivce on your subscription, the service will create a ready CCF network

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-  To test your application using Managed CCF, you can create `Azure Managed CCF <https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-confidential-computing/microsoft-introduces-preview-of-azure-managed-confidential/ba-p/3648986>`__ serivce on your subscription, the service will create a ready CCF network
```

-  Support only a ccf network in enclave mode (TEE hardware)
-  No initial governance steps required to start up your network, but you need to use governance to propose your application
-  How is it working?

   -  First, create the network’s initial member certificate, please check :doc:`Certificates generation </governance/adding_member>`
   -  Create a new Azure Managed CCF serivce (the initial member certificate required as input)
   -  Build the application and create a :ref:`build_apps/js_app_bundle:Deployment` proposal
   -  Deploy the application proposal, :ref:`governance/proposals:Submitting a New Proposal`
   -  Create and submit proposal for :ref:`governance/open_network:Adding Users` 

Testing: Application Endpoints
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To check samples on how to test your application endpoints, please check
> these repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check samples on how to test your application endpoints, please check these repositories:
```

-  `CCF-app-template repo <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-template#--javascript>`__
-  `Banking Application sample <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-samples/tree/main/banking-app#how-to-run-the-tests>`__

C++ Applications
----------------

CCF apps can also be written in C++. This offers better performance than JavaScript apps but requires a compilation step and a restart of the CCF node for deployment. please check `ccf-app-template <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-template>`__ repository.

The C++ sample app is located in the ```cpp/`` <cpp/>`__ directory.

Build C++ app
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Please check `ccf-app-template build process <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-template#build-c-app>`__

Run app: Using Sandbox.sh
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Please check `run ccf-app-template using sandbox.sh <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-template#run-c-app>`__

Run app: Using Docker
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Please check `run ccf-app-template using docker <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-template#docker-1>`__

Network Governance
------------------

> a Consortium of trusted Members :doc:`governs the CCF network </governance/index>`. members can submit proposals to CCF and these proposals are accepted based on the rules defined in the :ref:`Constitution <governance/constitution:Constitution>`. Governance changes are submitted to a :ref:`network as Proposals <governance/proposals:Summary>`, and put to a vote from members.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Consortium of trusted Members :doc:`governs the CCF network </governance/index>`. Members can submit proposals to CCF and these proposals are accepted based on the rules defined in the :ref:`Constitution <governance/constitution:Constitution>`. Governance changes are submitted to a :ref:`network as Proposals <governance/proposals:Summary>`, and put to a vote from members.
```

-  :ref:`Submitting a New Proposal <governance/proposals:Submitting a New Proposal>`
-  :ref:`Members can then vote to accept or reject the proposal <governance/proposals:Summary>`

.. note:: The initial member's certificate and private key, must be generated before starting a CCF network, please check :doc:`/governance/adding_member` .

Activating network members
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By default the CCF network needs at least one member to be started, after the network is started this member must be activated. 

- :ref:`New member proposal sample <governance/proposals:Submitting a New Proposal>`
- :ref:`Activating a New Member <governance/adding_member:Activating a New Member>`

Adding network users
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Users directly interact with the application running in CCF. Their public identities should be voted in by members before they are allowed to issue requests

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Users directly interact with the application running in CCF. Their public identities should be voted in by members before they are allowed to issue requests. 
```

Quick Start
===========

Application Development using CCF Overview
-------------------------------------------

What is CCF: The `Confidential Consortium Framework
(CCF) <https://ccf.dev/>`__ is an open-source framework for building a
new category of secure, highly available, and performant applications
that focus on multi-party compute and data.

-  Read the `CCF

>    overview <https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/overview/index.html>`__

Reviewer 3: These links are best done with Sphinx's syntax, to avoid hardcoding a branch and a hosting location, eg.

```
:doc:`overview/index`
```

or

```
:ref:`overview/index:Overview`
```

See https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/guides/cross-referencing-with-sphinx.html#the-ref-role for details.

Author: Done

   and get familiar with `CCF’s core
   concepts <https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/overview/what_is_ccf.html>`__
   and `Azure confidential
   computing <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/confidential-computing/>`__
-  `Build new CCF
   applications <https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/build_apps/index.html>`__
   in TypeScript/JavaScript or C++
-  CCF `Modules API
   reference <https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/js/ccf-app/modules.html>`__
-  CCF application get started repos

   -  `CCF application
      template <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-template>`__
   -  `CCF application
      samples <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-samples>`__

> Supported Programing Languages

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Supported Programming Languages
```

------------------------------

Applications can be written in

-  TypeScript
-  JavaScript
-  C++

> -  More languages support upcoming in 2023

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
-  More language support upcoming in 2023
```

> -  More language support upcoming in 2023

Author: Removed

Development environment
-----------------------

-  VS Code Dev Container |Open in VSCode|
-  Github codespace: |Github codespace|
-  Linux Machine (`Creating a Virtual Machine in Azure to run
   CCF <https://github.com/microsoft/CCF/blob/main/getting_started/azure_vm/README.md>`__)

(JavaScript/Typescript) Applications
------------------------------------

CCF apps can also be written in JavaScript or Typescript, To test a ccf
application you need go through the following steps:

> -  Start a CCF Network with at least one node

Author: Done

-  Initialize the CCF network with at least one (active member - user),
   this can be done through `Network Governance
   Proposals <https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/governance/proposals.html>`__.
-  Create an application `deployment
   proposal <https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/build_apps/js_app_bundle.html>`__
-  Submit the app deployment proposal to the network and all members
   accept it through voting. This is a part of `Network
   Governance <https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/governance/proposals.html>`__.
-  Open the CCF network for users
-  Start to test your application endpoints

Build Application
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The application building prerequisites [`CCF <#ccf-install>`__, NodeJS
and NPM] must be installed,all will be preinstalled if you are using
devcontainer environment, otherwise you need to install them manually .

In the checkout of
`ccf-app-samples <https://github.com/microsoft/ccf-app-samples>`__
repository:

.. code:: bash

   # carried out on the dev-container start up
   cd banking-app && npm install

   # build and generate the application bundle and deployment proposal
   make build

>    # a dist folder is created with app bundle and deployment proposal.

Reviewer: I think that a link to the `ccf-app-samples` repo should be enough here?

Author: Done

Testing your Application
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are several approaches to test your application

-  `Sandbox.sh <#testing-using-sandboxsh>`__

   -  Build an initialized CCF network and automatically deploy your app
      on top of it
   -  Support both ccf network types [virtual - enclave (TEE hardware)]

>    -  No governance steps required

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   -  No initial governance steps required
```

Author: Done

-  `Docker container <#testing-using-docker-containers>`__

   -  Support both ccf network types [virtual - enclave (TEE hardware)]
   -  Governance steps required to deploy your app, initialize, and
      start the network

-  `Azure Virtual Machine
   (Linux) <#testing-using-azure-virtual-machine>`__

   -  Support both ccf network types [virtual - enclave (TEE hardware)]

>    -  Governance steps required to deploy your app, initialize, and

Author: rephased as "Run app: Using CChost"

      start the network

-  `Azure Managed CCF <#testing-using-azure-managed-ccf>`__

   -  Support only a ccf network in enclave mode (TEE hardware)
   -  No governance steps required to start up your network, but you
      need to use governance to propose your application

Testing: Using Sandbox.sh
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> By running sandbox.sh script, it is automatically starts a CCF network

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Running the sandbox.sh script automatically starts a CCF network
```

Author: Done

and deploys your application on it. The app is up and ready to receive

> calls and all the governance work is done for you.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
calls and all the initial governance steps are done for you.
```

Author: Done

Start in a CCF Network in Enclave mode

.. code:: bash

   /opt/ccf/bin/sandbox.sh --js-app-bundle ./banking-app/dist/  --enclave-type release -p /opt/ccf/lib/libjs.enclave.so.signed
   ...
   [12:00:00.000] Press Ctrl+C to shutdown the network
   # It is then possible to interact with the service

Start in a CCF Network in Virtual mode (the default mode for testing)

.. code:: bash

   /opt/ccf/bin/sandbox.sh --js-app-bundle ./banking-app/dist/
   ...
   [12:00:00.000] Press Ctrl+C to shutdown the network

>    # It is then possible to interact with the service

Author: It is removed and added reference to run_app.html and ccf-app-template

Testing: Using docker containers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Build and run one of these docker files [“ccf_app_js.virtual” or
“ccf_app_js.enclave”] to start a CCF network with one node and one
member. After that, you need to execute governance steps to deploy the
application and open the network for users to begin access the app

> endpoints. All the governance steps need to be done manually using

Author: Done

`proposal submit and vote
process <https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/main/governance/proposals.html>`__.

> Build and run docker container to start a CCF network

Author: Done
